Society Logo

Name of Society

Health & Safety Policy

Section1: Statement of Intent

It is our Policy to ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, that
all our activities are carried out safely and do not pose a risk to the
Health of our Members or others. This will be in accordance with good
practice and any relevant statutory provisions where they apply. The
Society has no paid employees.

Our activities include the arrangement and organisation of bell ringing
at meetings and events, social activities, training sessions, and the
inspection and/or maintenance of bells. The bells may be in churches,
other premises, handbells or using simulated sound. This Policy does not
cover the activities of Members that are not organised by the Society.

Officers and Members of the Society undertake to consider seriously the
risks of damage and injury. They will take responsibility for their own
Health and Safety and that of others when involved with the Society in
any way.

The Senior Officers of the Society will support and advise Members on
Health and Safety matters. They will appoint a named individual to
develop this Policy and lead its implementation, assisted by others
where required.

Section 2 : Responsibilities for Health & Safety

Leadership of Health and Safety matters for the Society is with:

Name:

Post held:

Assisted by (name):

The Health & Safety Lead:

-   Produces, updates and publishes the Health and Safety Policy, taking
    advice from others and the views of Members when appropriate

-   Communicates this Policy to Members and others involved in Society
    activities

-   Investigates, records and reports on Health and Safety related
    incidents as soon as possible after their occurrence

-   Reports to the Society Management Committee Meeting when necessary,
    and annually to Members at the AGM

-   Ensures that Members are trained and informed of Health and Safety
    matters appropriate for activities that they undertake with the
    Society

-   Advises on written Risk Assessments prepared for activities
    organised by the Society

-   Advises on minimising risks when training novice ringers in bell
    handling

-   Advises on precautions to be taken by those working in the belfry
    (signage, no lone working, tools, working at heights, manual
    handling, use of personal protective equipment, hazardous materials,
    etc.)

-   Sets a personal example on matters of Health and Safety

-   Advises others involved in Society activities of any risks and
    hazards, including the use of appropriate signage.

All Members of the Society will:

-   Support the Society Officers on Health and Safety matters

-   Read and implement this Policy

-   Complete appropriate training and maintain their competence in
    activities that they undertake

-   Follow advice and guidance offered to them in matters relating to
    Health and Safety during Society activities

-   Take reasonable care of their own Health and Safety, and that of
    others

-   Use appropriate protective measures when required

-   Report any Health and Safety incidents or concerns to the Society
    Health and Safety Lead as soon as they occur

-   Follow Health and Safety policies and advice provided by other
    organisations during Society activities.

Section 3 : Arrangements for Health & Safety

This document will be reviewed and approved at least annually by the
Society Management Committee, and signed by the Chairman / Senior Member
of the Society. Health and Safety matters will be considered when
necessary at meetings of the Officers.

Society activities will be organised by people who are competent to do
so. An appropriate Risk Assessment must be completed prior to Society
activities.

The Society will provide appropriate training for Members and others
involved in its activities.

Procedures will be made available for managing emergency incidents.

Accidents and Health and Safety incidents will be recorded and reported
appropriately.

Version Control

This Health and Safety Policy was approved at the

Committee meeting of the (society name):

Held on (date):

Signed:

Position:

Name (in BLOCK CAPITALS):

Date:

  ------------- ---------- ------------ ------------------------ -------------
  **Version**   **Date**   **Author**   **Format/Copy Editor**   **Changes**
  1.0                                                            
  ------------- ---------- ------------ ------------------------ -------------

Version control is helpful to avoid confusion, particularly indicating
the final version.
